Document LDAP support (#19099)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/v24.3/ldap-authorization.md

---
title: Configure LDAP Authorization

> summary: Learn how to configure role-based access control (authorization) using LDAP with directory services like Active Directory.

Reviewer: Do you want to use the new name for AAD?

toc: true
---

> LDAP authorization allows CockroachDB to use group memberships accessed using LDAP, for example, from an Active Directory server, as the source of truth for [role](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/security-reference/authorization#roles) assignments. When enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page shows how to configure authorization for your cluster to assign [roles](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/security-reference/authorization#roles) based on a user's group membership in the LDAP service.

When enabled:
```

> 1. During login, CockroachDB retrieves the user's group memberships using LDAP.

Reviewer: This could use a similar set of edits to the suggestions in the Authentication page. Maybe something like:

1. When a client connects to the cluster using LDAP, the cluster looks up the user's group membership in the LDAP service.
2. Each LDAP group is mapped to a cluster role using the group's Common Name (CN) in the LDAP service.
3. The user is granted each corresponding role.
4. Roles that are no longer granted are revoked automatically.

(Is it really in this order, grants before revokes?)

2. Groups are mapped to CockroachDB roles using the group's Common Name (CN).
3. The user is automatically granted membership to corresponding roles.
4. Any existing role memberships not matched to LDAP groups are revoked.

## Prerequisites

> - Enable LDAP Authentication

Author: ```suggestion
- Enable [LDAP Authentication]({% link v24.3/ldap-authentication.md %}).
```

> - Enable [LDAP Authentication]({% link v24.3/ldap-authentication.md %}).

Reviewer: Is a configuration possible where the identities are not synced from LDAP (just normal CRDB users) but the roles are synced? This implies not.

## Configuration

### Step 1: Enable LDAP Authorization

Add the `ldapgrouplistfilter` parameter to your HBA configuration. The configuration includes two important LDAP filters:

1. `ldapsearchfilter`: Determines which users can authenticate
2. `ldapgrouplistfilter`: Defines which groups should be considered for authorization

Here's a basic example:

~~~ sql

> SET CLUSTER SETTING server.host_based_authentication.configuration = '

Reviewer: Is it worth explaining that everything here except for the last three items is actually the Authentication config that you probably already added in the prerequisites?

host    all    all    all    ldap    ldapserver=ldap.example.com 
    ldapport=636 
    "ldapbasedn=ou=users,dc=example,dc=com" 
    "ldapbinddn=cn=readonly,dc=example,dc=com" 
    ldapbindpasswd=readonly_password 
    ldapsearchattribute=uid 
    "ldapsearchfilter=(memberof=cn=cockroachdb_users,ou=groups,dc=example,dc=com)"
    "ldapgrouplistfilter=(objectClass=groupOfNames)"';
~~~

> For more precise control, you can configure these filters to match your security requirements:

Reviewer: I wonder if it is worth just having an H2 "Examples" heading near the end of the page, where you put these sections. This is what we have tended to do in other pages. It's a little weird to me to have all these examples and then have "Step 2" after them.

#### Search Filter Examples

To restrict authentication to members of specific groups:

~~~ sql
-- Users must be members of either the database users group or the analytics team
"ldapsearchfilter=(|(memberof=cn=cockroachdb_users,ou=groups,dc=example,dc=com)(memberof=cn=analytics_team,ou=groups,dc=example,dc=com))"
~~~

#### Group List Filter Examples

The `ldapgrouplistfilter` configuration varies by LDAP server type:

~~~ sql
-- For Azure Active Directory:
"ldapgrouplistfilter=(objectCategory=CN=Group,CN=Schema,CN=Configuration,DC=example,DC=com)"

-- For OpenLDAP:
"ldapgrouplistfilter=(objectClass=groupOfNames)"
~~~

For enhanced security, restrict the groups that can be mapped to CockroachDB roles:

~~~ sql
-- Only map specific groups to CockroachDB roles
"ldapgrouplistfilter=(|(cn=crdb_analysts)(cn=crdb_developers))"
~~~

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
We recommend that you explicitly specify which groups should be mapped to CockroachDB roles rather than using broader filters. This ensures that only intended groups are granted database access.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> ### Step 2: Create Matching Roles

Reviewer: I think we use sentence case for headings

Create CockroachDB roles that match your LDAP group names and grant appropriate privileges to each role. Remember that role names must comply with CockroachDB's [identifier requirements](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v24.2/create-user#user-names).

For example, if you've configured the group filter to allow `crdb_analysts` and `crdb_developers`:

~~~ sql
-- Create role for analysts
CREATE ROLE crdb_analysts;
GRANT SELECT ON DATABASE analytics TO crdb_analysts;

-- Create role for developers
CREATE ROLE crdb_developers;
GRANT ALL ON DATABASE app TO crdb_developers;
~~~

## Troubleshooting

> Enable authentication logging to troubleshoot LDAP issues:

Reviewer: Do we think that they should always run with logging enabled, or only enable logging if they are having a problem? I wonder if this should be a step 3 heading outside of the troubleshooting, or if it should be another numbered step at the end of Step 1, around line 74.

Reviewer 2: Logging has some latency penalty. So best to turn it off once everything is setup. So maybe it should be something lilke:
Turn on logging
Setup
Turn off logging once everything is working

~~~ sql
SET CLUSTER SETTING server.auth_log.sql_sessions.enabled = true;
~~~

> Potential issues may pertain to:

Reviewer: I'm not sure what we are trying to say here. Are we saying "To troubleshoot the following sorts of issues, enable logging?

Also is this "authorization logging"? Since this is the authorization page. I don't think we give the advice to enable this on the Authentication page. Should we?

Reviewer 2: > I don't think we give the advice to enable this on the Authentication page. Should we?
We should. Right now both authn and authz log at the same place.

- Network connectivity to the LDAP server.
- Incorrect bind DN or password.
- Search filter not matching the intended users.
- TLS certificates.
- Missing or mismatched role names.

## Security Considerations

> 1. Always keep a backup authentication method (like password) for administrative users

Reviewer 2: Maybe clarify root
> Always keep a backup authentication method (like password) for administrative (root) users

> 1. Always keep a backup authentication method (like password) for administrative users

Reviewer: It seems like we should have some consideration about protecting your LDAP password, but I'm not sure about it because it will be in your shell history if you follow our earlier advice.

Reviewer 2: I think redacting sensitive setting should be turned on at the least. One of the GA items will be to make this password more secure. cc: @biplav

2. Use LDAPS (LDAP over TLS) in production environments

> 3. Use a restricted service account for directory searches

Reviewer: I'm still confused about whose service account this is. In the user's cloud tenant? Is this only for Azure?

Reviewer 2: This would be a LDAP or AD account configured for fetching role info from LDAP or AD server.
